# Kickstarter Analysis
### June 22, 2022
### Elizabeth Collins


##### **Overview of Project**
The purpose of this project was to analyze an excel data sheet containing information for a kickstarter company. The sheet included 3888 projects in several different categories including film, technology, journalism, and other forms of the arts. Projects had three different outcomes: successful, failed, and cancelled. These outcomes were determined by the number of donations, if donation goals were met, and if everything was funded by the deadline. Two major analysis were done with this data. First, an inquiry into whether the theatre outcomes were successful in relation to their launch date. Second, an analysis into the relationship between the success of a project and donation goals. 

##### **Analysis and Challenges**
The theatre outcomes by launch date analysis are sectioned by month. For this process, I used the raw data to create a pivot table totalling the number of theatre projects that were successful, failed and cancelled by month. Using this table I was able ot create a [line chart](https://github.com/encollin94/kickstarter-analysis/blob/main/Theater_Outcomes_vs_Launch.png) that shows the trends over time.  Some challenges you could have with this project is properly filtering the data to reflect the correct projects and category of success. It is important ot make sure all data only reflects the data for out intended purpose. The outcomes based on donation goals filtered dontaion goals into seperate ranges, such as less than 1000, 1000-4999, 5000-9999, and so on. Each range counted the number of successful, failed and cancelled projects and was plotted into a table. From there,the ranges could break down the percentage of successful projects or failed projects to total projects. The results of this process can be visualized into this [line graph](https://github.com/encollin94/kickstarter-analysis/blob/main/Outcomes_vs_Goals.png). A problem that I ran into working with this task is putting the ranges in ascending order. I had to manually move the ranges to reflecrt a line graph that worked theough the data in the correct order. 

##### **Results**
In the Theatre Outcomes by Launch analysis, there are two major outcomes that come to light. The first outcome is that the summer months, specifically May and June, there is a larger number of projects successfully funded compared to other months and seasons. The second outcomes is that the winter months, specifically November and December has the least amount of theatre projects funded. More research should be done to understand the circumstances around the funding success and seaosnality. The underlying circumsances could lead to more successfully funded projects.  In the donation goals and outcomes analysis, there was an interesting pattern that emerged. In the smaller donation goal ranges, the percentage of successful projects were higher than failed projects. The more funding needed then the higher percentage of failed projects. However, from the ranges of 35000 to 45000 there is a break in this pattern where successful projects had a higher percentage compared to failed projects. 
In the overall data, there is some limitations, because while we can measure success by parameters such as seasonality and  unding goal. There is no information contributing to why certain ranges or seasons result in different project success. Much more research should be done to look at factors that could be contributing to these trends. 
